this is a map of New York State that was
made in 1937 by the general drafting
company it's an extremely famous map
among cartography nerds because down
here at the bottom of the Catskill
Mountains there is a little town called
Roscoe that's actually this will go
easier if I just put it up here
there's Roscoe and then right above
Roscoe is Rockland New York and then
right above that is the tiny town of
agloe New York agloe New York is very
famous to cartographers because it's a
paper town it's also known as a
copyright trap map makers because my map
of New York and your map of New York are
going to look very similar on account of
the shape of New York often map makers
will insert fake places onto their maps
in order to protect their copyright
because then if my fake place shows up
on your map I can be well and truly sure
that you have robbed me
agloe is a scrabble ization of the
initials of the two guys who made this
map Ernest G Albers and Otto Lindbergh
and they released this map in 1937
decades later Rand McNally releases a
map with agloe New York on it at the
same exact intersection of two dirt
roads in the middle of nowhere well you
can imagine the delight over at general
drafting they immediately call Rand
McNally and they say we've caught you we
made a glow New York up it is a fake
place it's a paper town we're gonna sue
your pants off and Rand McNally says no
no no no no a glow is real because
people kept going to that intersection
of two dirt roads in the middle of
nowhere expecting there to be a place
called agloe someone built a place
called agloe New York had a gas station
a general store two houses at its peak
and this is of course a completely
irresistible metaphor to a novelist
because we would all like to believe
that the stuff that we write down on
paper can change the actual world in
which we're actually living which is why
my third book is called Paper Towns but
what interests me ultimately more than
the medium in which this happened is the
phenomenon itself it's easy enough to
say that the world shapes our maps of
the world right like the overall shape
of the world is obviously going to
affect our maps but what I find a lot
more interesting is the way that the
manner in which we map the world changes
the world because the world would truly
be a different place if North were down
and the world would be a truly different
place if Alaska and Russia weren't on
opposite sides of the map and the world
would be a different place if we
projected Europe to show it in its
actual size the world is changed by our
maps of the world the way that we choose
to sort of our personal cartographic
Enterprise also shapes the map of our
lives and that in turn shapes our lives
I believe that what we map changes the
life we lead and I don't mean that in
some like secretiy Oprah's Angels
Network like you can think your way out
of cancer sense but I do believe that
while maps don't show you where you will
go in your life they show you where you
might go you very rarely go to a place
that isn't on your personal map so I was
a really terrible student when I was a
kid my GPA was consistently in the low
twos and I think the reason that I was
such a terrible student is that I felt
like education was just a series of
hurdles that had been erected before me
and that I had to jump over in order to
achieve adulthood and I didn't really
want to jump over these hurdles because
they seemed completely arbitrary so I
often wouldn't and then people would
threaten me you know they threatened me
with this going on my permanent record
or you'll never get a good job I didn't
want a good job so I'm as far as I could
tell at 11 or 12 years old like people
with good jobs woke up very early in the
morning and the men who had good jobs
one of the first things they did was tie
a strangulation item of clothing around
their necks they literally put nooses on
themselves and then they went off to
their jobs whatever they were that's not
a recipe for a happy life these people
and my like symbol obsessed
twelve-year-old imagination these people
who are strangling themselves as one of
the first things they do each morning
they can't possibly be happy why would I
want to jump over all of these hurdles
and have that be the end
that's a terrible end and then when I
was in tenth grade I went to this school
Indian Springs school a small boarding
school outside of Birmingham Alabama and
all at once I became a learner and I
became a learner because I found myself
in a community of learners I found
myself surrounded by people who
celebrated intellectualism and
engagement and who thought that my
ironic oh so cool disengagement wasn't
clever or funny but like it was a simple
and unspectacular response to very
complicated and compelling problems and
so I started to learn because learning
was cool I learned that some infinite
sets are bigger than other infinities
and I learned what I Amba contaminoid to
human ears I learned that the Civil War
was a nationalizing conflict I learned
some physics I learned that correlation
shouldn't be confused with causation all
of these things by the way enriched my
life on a literally daily basis and it's
true that I don't use most of them for
my job but that's not what it's about
for me it's about cartography what is
the process of cartography it's you know
sailing upon some land and thinking I
think I'll draw that bit of land and
then wondering maybe there's some more
land to draw and that's where learning
really began for me it's true that I had
teachers that didn't give up on me and I
was very fortunate to have those
teachers because I often gave them cause
to think there was no reason to invest
in me but a lot of the learning that I
did in high school wasn't about what
happened inside the classroom it was
about what happened outside of the
classroom for instance I can
tell you that there's a certain slant of
light winter afternoons that oppresses
like the heft of Cathedral Tunes not
because I memorized Emily Dickinson in
school when I was in high school but
because there was a girl when I was in
high school and her name was Amanda and
I had a crush on her and she liked Emily
Dickinson poetry the reason I can tell
you what opportunity cost is is because
one day when I was playing Super Mario
Kart on my couch my friend Emmett walked
in and he said how long have you been
playing Super Mario Kart and I said I
don't know like six hours and he's head
he realized that if you've worked at
Baskin Robbins those six hours you could
have made $30 so in some ways you just
paid $30 to play Super Mario Kart and I
was like I'll take that deal but I
learned what opportunity cost is and
along the way the map of my life got
better it got bigger it contained more
places there were more things that might
happen more futures I might have it
wasn't a formal organized learning
process and I'm happy to admit that it
was spotty it was inconsistent there was
a lot I didn't know I might know you
know the Cantor's idea that some infants
infinite sets are larger than other
infinite sets but I didn't really
understand the calculus behind that idea
I might know the idea of opportunity
cost but I didn't know the law of
diminishing returns but the great thing
about imagining learning is cartography
instead of imagining that is arbitrary
hurdles that you have to jump over is
that you see a bit of coastline and that
makes you want to see more and so now I
do know at least some of the calculus
that underlies all of that stuff so I
had one learning community in high
school then I went to another for
college and then I went to another when
I started working at a magazine called
book list where I was an assistant
surrounded by astonishingly well-read
people and then I wrote a book and like
all authors dream of doing I promptly
quit my job and for the first time since
high school I found myself without a
learning community and it was miserable
I hated it I read many many books during
this two-year period I read books about
Stalin and I read books about how the
Uzbek people came to identify as Muslims
and I read
about how to make atomic bombs but it
just felt like I was creating my own
hurdles and then jumping over them
myself instead of feeling the excitement
of being part of a community of learners
a community of people who are engaged
together in the cartographic Enterprise
of trying to better understand and map
the world around us and then in 2006 I
met that guy his name's a Frank I didn't
actually meet him just on the internet
say Frank was running at the time a show
called the show with say Frank and I
discovered this show and that was my way
back into being a community learner
again here's a talking about Las Vegas
Las Vegas was built in the middle of a
huge hot desert almost everything here
was brought from somewhere else the sort
of rocks the trees the waterfalls these
fish are almost is out of place is my
pig that flew contrasted to the
scorching desert that surrounds this
place so were these people things from
all over the world have been rebuilt
here away from their histories and away
from the people that experience them
differently sometimes improvements were
made even the Sphinx got a nose job here
what you see is what you get and there's
no reason to feel like you're missing
anything this New York means the same to
me as it does to everyone else
everything is out of context and that
means context allows for everything
self-parking Events Center Shark Reef
this fabrication of place could be one
of the world's greatest achievements
because no one belongs here everyone
does as I walked around this morning I
noticed most of the buildings were huge
mirrors reflecting the Sun back into the
desert but unlike most mirrors which
present you with an outside view of
yourself embedded in a place these
mirrors come back empty makes me
nostalgic for the days when you could
see the pixels and online video day
isn't just a great public intellectual
he's also a brilliant Community Builder
and the community of people that built
up around these videos was in many ways
a community of learners so we played a
Frank at chess collaboratively and we
beat him we organized ourselves to take
a young man on a road trip across the
United States we turned the earth into a
sandwich by having one person hold a
piece of bread at one point on the earth
and on the exact opposite point of the
earth have another person holding a
piece of bread I realized that these are
silly ideas but they are also learning
ideas
and that was what was so exciting to me
and if you go online you can find
communities like this all over the place
follow the calculus tag on tumblr and
yes you will see people complaining
about calculus but you'll also see
people reblogging those complaints
making the argument that calculus is
interesting and beautiful and here's a
way into thinking about the problem that
you find unsolvable you can go to places
like Reddit and find sub reddits like
ask ask a historian or ask science where
you can ask people who are in these
fields a wide range of questions from
very serious ones to very silly ones but
to me the most interesting communities
of learners that are growing up on the
internet right now are on YouTube and
admittedly I am biased but I think in a
lot of ways you the YouTube page
resembles a classroom look for instance
at minute physics a guy who is teaching
the world about physics let's cut to the
chase
as of July 4th 2012 the Higgs boson is
the last fundamental piece of the
Standard Model of particle physics to be
discovered experimentally but you might
ask why was the Higgs boson included in
the standard model alongside well-known
particles like electrons and photons and
quarks if it hadn't been discovered back
then in the 1970s good question there
are two main reasons first just like the
electron is an excitation in the
electron field the Higgs boson is simply
a particle which is an excitation of the
everywhere permeating Higgs field the
Higgs field in turn plays an integral
role in our model for the weak nuclear
force in particular the Higgs field
helps explain why it's so weak we'll
talk more about this in a later video
but even though we can nuclear theory
was confirmed in the 1980s in the
equations the Higgs field is so
inextricably jumbled with the weak force
that until now we've been unable to
confirm its actual and independent
existence or here's a video that I made
as part of my show crash course talking
about world war 1 the immediate cause
was of course the assassination in
Sarajevo of the Austrian Archduke Franz
Ferdinand on June 28 1914 by a Bosnian
Serb nationalists named Gavrilo Princip
quick aside it's worth noting that the
first big war of the 20th century began
with an act of terrorism
so Franz Ferdinand wasn't particularly
well-liked by his uncle the Emperor
Franz Josef now that is a mustache but
even so the assassination led Austria to
issue an ultimatum to Serbia whereupon
Serbia accepted some but not all of
Austria's demands leading Austria to
declare war against Serbia and then
due to its alliance with the Serbs
mobilized its army Germany because it
had an alliance with Austria told Russia
to stop mobilizing which Russia failed
to do so then Germany mobilized its own
army declared war on Russia cemented in
alliance with the Ottomans and then
declared war on France because you know
France and it's not just physics and
world history that people are choosing
to learn through YouTube here's a video
about abstract mathematics so you mean
you're in math class yet again because
they make you go like every single day
and you're learning about I don't know
the sums of infinite series that's a
high school topic right which is odd
because it's a cool topic but they
somehow managed to ruin it anyway so I
guess that's why they allow infinite
series is in the curriculum so in a
quite understandable need for
distraction your doodling and thinking
more about what the plural of series
should be than about the topic at hand
series is Serie C series in C right or
is it that the singular should be
changed one serie or series or serum
just like the singular of sheep should
be Shoop but the whole concept of things
like 1/2 plus 1/4 plus 1/8 plus 1/16 and
so on approach is one is useful if say
you want to draw a line of elephants
each holding the tail the next one
normal elephant young elephant baby
elephant dog sized elephant puppy-sized
elephant all the way down to mr. tusks
and Beyond which is at least a tiny bit
awesome because you can get an infinite
number of elephants in a line and still
have it fit across a single notebook
page and you actually here's Destin from
smarter every day talking about the
conservation of angular momentum and
since its YouTube cats hey it's me
Destin welcome back to smarter every day
so you've probably observed that cats
almost always land on their feet
today's question is why like most simple
questions there's a very complex answer
for instance let me reword this question
how does a cat go from feet up to feet
down in a falling reference frame
without violating the conservation of
angular momentum so here's something all
four of these videos have in common they
all have more than half a million views
on YouTube and those are people watching
not in classrooms but because they are
part of the community of communities of
learning that are being set up by these
channels and I said earlier that YouTube
is like a classroom to me in many ways
it is be
here is the instructor it's like the
old-fashioned classroom here is the
instructor and then beneath the
instructor is the students and they're
all having a conversation and I know
that YouTube comments have a very very
bad reputation in the world of the
Internet but in fact if you go on
comments for these channel channels what
you'll find is people engaging the
subject matter asking difficult
complicated questions that are about the
subject matter and then other people
answering those questions and because
the YouTube page is set up so that the
page in which I'm talking to you is on
the exact the place where I'm talking to
you is on the exact same page as your
comments you are participating in a live
and real and active way in the
conversation and because I'm in comments
usually I get to participate with you
and you find this whether it's world
history or mathematics or science or
whatever it is you also see young people
using the tools and the sort of genres
of the Internet in order to create
places for intellectual engagement
instead of the ironic detachment that
maybe most of us associate with memes
and other Internet conventions you know
got bored invented calculus or here's
honey booboo criticizing industrial
capitalism in case you can't see what
she says yeah I really believe that
these spaces these communities have
become for a new generation of learners
the kind of communities the kind of
cartographic communities that I had when
I was in high school and then again when
I was in college and as an adult REE
finding these communities has
reintroduced me to a community of
learners and has encouraged me to
continue to be a learner even in my
adulthood so that I no longer feel like
learning is something reserved for the
young vihart and minutephysics
introduced me to all kinds of things
that i didn't know before and I know
that we all harken back to the days of
the Parisian salon and the Enlightenment
er to the Algonquin Round Table and wish
out I wish I could have been a part of
that I wish I could have laughed at
Dorothy Parker's
but I'm here to tell you that these
places exist they still exist they exist
in corners of the Internet where old men
fear to tread and I truly truly believe
that when we invented agloe New York in
the 1960s when we made agloe real we
were just getting started
thank you
[Applause]
[Music]